TELCODOCS-1683 QinQ support in SR-IOV Network Operator 1 (#74534)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/nw-sriov-about-qinq.adoc

// Module included in the following assembly:
//
// * networking/hardware_networks/configuring-sriov-qinq-support.adocance/configuring-sriov-qinq-support.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: CONCEPT
[id="nw-about-qinq-support_{context}"]

> = About 802.1q-in-802.1q support

Reviewer: Per related discussion in https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/76252#discussion_r1617520469, would you like to sync this PR up with the other's capitalization? (But not for when it's a value like `802.1q` in backticks like on [line 82](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/74534/files#diff-8ffa1f0cd73fa10b0cbf8fb300230d319cf306c5953c22af4e1e7a4b58741962R82))
```suggestion
= About 802.1Q-in-802.1Q support
```

In traditional VLAN setups, frames typically contain a single VLAN tag, such as VLAN-100, as well as other metadata such as Quality of Service (QoS) bits and protocol information. QinQ introduces a second VLAN tag, where the service provider designates the outer tag for their use, offering them flexibility, while the inner tag remains dedicated to the customer's VLAN.

QinQ facilitates the creation of nested VLANs by using double VLAN tagging, enabling finer segmentation and isolation of traffic within a network environment. This approach is particularly valuable in service provider networks where you need to deliver VLAN-based services to multiple customers over a common infrastructure, while ensuring separation and isolation of traffic.

When two VLAN tags are present in a packet, the outer VLAN tag can be either 802.1q or 802.1ad. The inner VLAN tag must always be 802.1q.

> {product-title} SR-IOV solution already supports setting the VLAN protocol on the `SriovNetwork` custom resource (CR).  The virtual function (VF) can use this protocol to set the VLAN tag, also known as the outer tag. Pods can then use the VLAN CNI plugin to configure the inner tag.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The {product-title} SR-IOV solution already supports setting the VLAN protocol on the `SriovNetwork` custom resource (CR).  The virtual function (VF) can use this protocol to set the VLAN tag, also known as the outer tag. Pods can then use the VLAN CNI plugin to configure the inner tag.
```

.Supported Network interface cards 
[cols="30%,30%,40%",options="header"]
|===
| NIC | 802.1ad/802.1q | 802.1q/802.1q

| Intel X710 | No

> a|Supported and tested

Reviewer 3: please only put "Supported"

In traditional VLAN setups, frames typically contain a single VLAN tag, such as VLAN-100, alongside other metadata such as Quality of Service (QoS) bits and protocol information. QinQ introduces a second VLAN tag, where the service provider designates the outer tag for their use, offering them flexibility, while the inner tag remains dedicated to the customer's VLAN.

By employing double VLAN tagging, QinQ facilitates the creation of nested VLANs, enabling finer segmentation and traffic isolation within a network environment. This approach is particularly valuable in service provider networks, where VLAN-based services need to be delivered to multiple customers over a shared infrastructure, all while ensuring traffic separation and isolation.

When two VLAN tags are present in a packet, the outer VLAN tag can be either 802.1q or 802.1ad. The inner VLAN tag must always be 802.1q.

> The {product-title} SR-IOV solution already supports 802.1q/802.1q, by seting a VLAN in the `SriovNetwork` object and configuring a additional VLAN interface internally in the pod. 

Reviewer 3: I would say instead that our solution supports setting the vlan protocol on the sriovNetwork which will be used by the VF to set the vlan tag (outer tag). Pods might use the vlan cni (referrence to the vlan cni section) to configure the inner tag. Something like that.

.Supported Network interface cards 
[cols="30%,30%,40%",options="header"]
|===
| NIC | 802.1ad/802.1q | 802.1q/802.1q

> 

Reviewer 3: you're missing Mellanox. It's the same as Intel X710

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//

> // 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
assembly path??
```

// 
// 

:_mod-docs-content-type: CONCEPT
[id="nw-about-qinq-support_{context}"]
= About 802.1q-in-802.1q support

> QinQ, formally known as 802.1q-in-802.1q, is a networking technique defined by IEEE 802.1ad. IEEE 802.1ad, extends the IEEE 802.1Q-1998 standard, enriches VLAN capabilities by introducing an additional 802.1Q tag to packets already tagged with 802.1Q. This method is also referred to as VLAN stacking or double VLAN.
> 
> In traditional VLAN setups, frames typically contain a single VLAN tag, such as VLAN-100, alongside other metadata such as Quality of Service (QoS) bits and protocol information. QinQ introduces a second VLAN tag, where the service provider designates the outer tag for their use, offering them flexibility, while the inner tag remains dedicated to the customer's VLAN.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
QinQ, formally known as 802.1q-in-802.1q, is a networking technology. By introducing an additional 802.1Q tag for packets already tagged with 802.1Q, IEEE 802.1ad defines and extends the IEEE 802.1Q-1998 standard and enriches VLAN capabilities. This method is also referred to as VLAN stacking or double VLAN.

In traditional VLAN configurations, frames usually contain a single VLAN tag, such as VLAN-100, as well as other metadata such as Quality of Service (QoS) bits and protocol information. QinQ introduces a second VLAN tag where the service provider designates the outer tag for its use, giving it flexibility, while the inner tag remains reserved for your VLAN.
```

> By employing double VLAN tagging, QinQ facilitates the creation of nested VLANs, enabling finer segmentation and traffic isolation within a network environment. This approach is particularly valuable in service provider networks, where VLAN-based services need to be delivered to multiple customers over a shared infrastructure, all while ensuring traffic separation and isolation.
> 
> When two VLAN tags are present in a packet, the outer VLAN tag can be either 802.1q or 802.1ad. The inner VLAN tag must always be 802.1q.
> 
> {product-title} SR-IOV solution already supports setting the VLAN protocol on the `SriovNetwork` custom resource (CR) which can be used by the virtual function (VF) to set the VLAN tag otherwise known as the outer tag. Pods can then use the VLAN CNI plugin to configure the inner tag.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
QinQ facilitates the creation of nested VLANs by using double VLAN tagging, enabling finer segmentation and isolation of traffic within a network environment. This approach is particularly valuable in service provider networks where you need to deliver VLAN-based services to multiple customers over a common infrastructure, while ensuring separation and isolation of traffic.

If two VLAN tags are present in a packet, the outer VLAN tag is either 802.1q or 802.1ad. The inner VLAN tag is always 802.1q.

{product-title} SR-IOV solution already supports setting the VLAN protocol on the `custom resource `SriovNetwork` (CR). The virtual function (VF) can use this protocol to set the VLAN tag, also known as the outer tag. Pods can then use the VLAN-CNI plugin to configure the inner tag.
```
